docs/en/development/portal-how-to-enable-webhook-notification.md, before:

Apollo has supported  **webhook** since 1.8.0 edition, which is triggered to send you a message when your configuration is released.

## How to enable webhook

> The configuration items are stored in the table named ApolloPortalDB.ServerConfig. `admin—system parameter` page is an alternative to configuration. All the configurations will be valid in one minute.

1. webhook.supported.envs

Open the environments lists. Multiple envs are split by comma, like

```
DEV, FAT, UAT, PRO
```

2. config.release.webhook.service.url

Config the url that receives HTTP post request sent by webhook for notifying. Multiple urls should be split by comma, like
```
http://www.xxx.com/webhook1,http://www.xxx.com/webhook2
```

## How to use

1. URL parameters

parameter name    | parameter annotation
--- | ---
 env   | env of the configuration to be released

2. Request body sample

```json
{
    "appId": "",  // appId
    "clusterName": "",  // cluster
    "namespaceName": "", // namespace
    "operator": "",  // modifier
    "releaseId": 2,  // release id
    "releaseTitle": "",  // release title 
    "releaseComment": "",  // release Comment
    "releaseTime": "",  // release time  eg：2020-01-01T00:00:00.000+0800
    "configuration": [ { // all configurations to be released; also applys to gray release
        "firstEntity": "",  // key of configuration
        "secondEntity": ""  // value of configuration
    } ],
    "isReleaseAbandoned": false,
    "previousReleaseId": 1,  // releaseId of latest formal release
    "operation":  // 0-normal release 1-rollabck 2-gray release 4-full release
    "operationContext": {  // property setting for operation
        "isEmergencyPublish": true/false,  // emergercy release or not
        "rules": [ {  // rules for gray release
            "clientAppId": "",   // appId
            "clientIpList": [ "10.0.0.2", "10.0.0.3" ]  // IP lists
        } ],
        "branchReleaseKeys": [ "", "" ]  // key of Gray Release
    }
}
```

Commit message:

changes according to Song's suggestion

docs/en/development/portal-how-to-enable-webhook-notification.md, after:

Starting with version 1.8.0, Apollo has added webhook support, which will be triggered to send you a message when your configuration is released.

## How to enable webhook

> The configuration items are stored in the table named ApolloPortalDB.ServerConfig. You may also config them in `Admin Tools - System Configuration` page. The configuration changes will take effect within one minute.

1. webhook.supported.envs

The environment lists to enable webhook support. Multiple environments should be separated by commas, e.g.,

```
DEV, FAT, UAT, PRO
```

2. config.release.webhook.service.url

Config the url that receives HTTP post request sent by webhook for notifying. Multiple urls should be separated by commas, e.g.,

```
http://www.xxx.com/webhook1,http://www.xxx.com/webhook2
```

## How to use

1. URL parameters

parameter name    | parameter annotation
--- | ---
 env   | env of the configuration to be released

2. Request body sample

```json
{
    "appId": "",  // appId
    "clusterName": "",  // cluster
    "namespaceName": "", // namespace
    "operator": "",  // modifier
    "releaseId": 2,  // release id
    "releaseTitle": "",  // release title 
    "releaseComment": "",  // release Comment
    "releaseTime": "",  // release time  eg：2020-01-01T00:00:00.000+0800
    "configuration": [ { // all configurations to be released; also applys to gray release
        "firstEntity": "",  // key of configuration
        "secondEntity": ""  // value of configuration
    } ],
    "isReleaseAbandoned": false,
    "previousReleaseId": 1,  // releaseId of latest formal release
    "operation":  // 0-normal release 1-rollabck 2-gray release 4-full release
    "operationContext": {  // property setting for operation
        "isEmergencyPublish": true/false,  // emergercy release or not
        "rules": [ {  // rules for gray release
            "clientAppId": "",   // appId
            "clientIpList": [ "10.0.0.2", "10.0.0.3" ]  // IP lists
        } ],
        "branchReleaseKeys": [ "", "" ]  // key of Gray Release
    }
}
```
